# Shamma-Alkhoori.github.io

Sounds Like 


Project Name: The Recital 


Why Animations & Storytelling?
An animated video is an excellent way to tell a story and convey the message more creatively. We all loved storytelling since childhood. Kids like to listen to stories with surprising and exciting scenarios. Actually, were all like them . Most often, we would rather hear a story, or even watch it, than read it. Creative storytelling is fundamental ,however, having a story to be animated with an exciting narrative experience is even more engaging. By using eye-catching and memorable animation, it not only emphasizes the audience existing associations but even instill new ones. In other words, the reason we mainly went for animation is because it empowers the audiences to create a new perception in there minds. Its a perfect storytelling tool because it gives freedom for improvisation. When delivering a message, my imagination flied high, and there were no limits. We wanted to create a fantastic plot and make the products feel alive in the video. It opened up an opportunity to create visual effects that are not accessible in ordinary real-life videos and conveys a certain mood and style. Consequently, a powerful way to transfer emotions as it tends to exaggerate feelings to make them visible in the video.


Project Description: There are many myths, misunderstandings, and stereotypes and attitudes that surround mental illness. All those lead to discrimination, judgment, and isolation of people with a mental illness. This probably creates a range of emotions and memories that may trigger many people. In the process of brainstorming, I remembered something that I once heard “If you have a brain, then you have a mental health… lets normalize talking about it”. This inspired me with the want to shed awareness toward mental illness because it’s not a topic that is widely discussed in today’s society. In my perspective, I know what mental illness is from a loved one and to my partner, it’s a first-hand experience. We both wanted to deliver a message in a narration form, so we made it as a dialogue between two best friends. One that suffers from mental illness and one that doesn’t. Several myths and facts of mental illness were all integrated within the dialogue. We decided to have storytelling as it’s a fundamental factor in meaning-making and bringing facts to life with a heartfelt experience. The Recital is a story about a person that struggles with anxiety who has a dream to become a pianist, but he has stage fright. His best friend encourages him to overcome his fear, however she doesn’t fully grasp the meaning of anxiety. Eventually, she begins to understand and helps him conquer his fears. The experience we strived for is to speak of anxiety which is a serious matter that many individuals struggle with in a lighthearted yet informative way.  


Process: The journey of completion process was compelling and interesting at the same time. My partner and I decided to split the work among us, so we get to give our best and be more efficient and productive with the time limit. I was responsible for the animation and sounds, while my partner took on the lead in regards of the code aspect. Before starting the animation, I gathered the information about mental illness myths and facts and finalized the script that will later be voice recorded using Audacity. In the process of recording the voice narration, I used Audacity to create the effect of hearing the voice from left and right side of the ear. Later, I saved it and exported it to an mp3 that will later be used with the animation video once done. Then, I gathered the background music that will be used along whole video to give a sense of consistency and an enjoyable experience. Also, I collected the different music audios that I would like to be integrated in the video from the web. For example, the piano sound and hitting the wrong piano keys and etc. The animations were created by using Vyond an animated video creation platform to create the whole animations and scenes for the video. It already comes with templates that can be used and customized based on each individual’s preference. Moreover, it gave me the option to edit the characters, themes, upload pictures or videos, add motion and dialogue to the video elements like characters. I used the animation setting to integrate all the sounds with the animation in a continuous video by converting every sound file I had into an mp3 format. Then, I had to cut and move each sound file around the clip it needed to be with in order to synch them all together. Also, manipulations were crucial in terms of the audio volume, either loud, low, or even faded in some scenes. All depending on the given settings and the experience we were going for. Sound effects, voice-overs and music can add impact and emotion to animation created. The spoken word is a powerful vehicle that can pull in the audience, help them understand our story and make them feel emotions encountered. Multiple original sounds were also created. First, the narration is a conversation recorded between me and my partner in Audacity. Second, the chattering sound of the crowd was made by ruffling papers and layering recorded audios of whispering. Third, the cheering voice and booing voice was made by clapping and layering them on top of each other while integrating phrases recorded in reality with them Moreover, I used the reverb effect to create the effect of being in a large hall which is a plug in. Also, the normalize effect to lessen the pitch of whistling audio that was used in cheering clips. Fourth, the sound of a deep inhale was made by taking a deep breath in an empty room. Finally, the children mocking laughter was made by recording several laughs of different people all together. However, the voice records that were made in Vyond setting when moved to website implementation showed some minor challenges. It felt like there was a cut between the transitions and it didn’t feel quite smooth, so I used the envelope tool to smooth them out. Consequently, we modified all the audio files we had in Audacity for a smoother transition and to have everything toned up and free of glitches. 


Reflection/Evaluation: The Recital initial concept was to reconstruct the myths and facts of mental illness in the means of storytelling. The purpose is to normalize mental illness and showcase a personal experience that many suffer in different forms. I believe that most of our expectations were met, regardless of some minor challenges encountered in the process of transitioning the animations and sound effects to be displayed in a website form. I am glad that I got the opportunity to free style with my animations and freestyle in the way I create and integrate the sound effects, whether originally created or gathered from the web. However, that was quite a challenge at the same time because I had to go for something that would appeal to the audience and deliver the message in a right way. Also, create a sense of originality. At the end, it was truly an experience that allowed us to explore the creativity we each have inside of us and make us grow bigger and wiser in terms of teamwork and stepping out of our comfort zone. 

